- [Instructor] The many to many association
is the most difficult association to map in JPA.
So I'm going to walk you through it in this lesson,
in order to support our discussion
I needed to preposition some items.
So let's walk through those now.
What we've done is we've created a scenario
where each catalog item has an inventory manager
or an item manager, you'll see that we created
the item manager entity and it contains a list
of catalog items so one item manager can manage
many items, now if we look at the catalog item entity.
You'll see that the item has a list of item managers,
so this creates our many to many scenario
and then the way we support this within the application,
first if we take a look at our list.
You'll notice that we are now able to link
to an individual item page.
So we've created a new facelet for the item details
and here's the item facelet and if we take a look at that.
You'll notice that this page is very similar
to our confirmation page, it displays some information
about the item and then we have
this other section, managers.
This section allows us to add a manager
into this list, so you're going to see the managers listed
and then there's a form where you can go ahead
and add a manager to the list of managers for the item.
We're using a little bit of AJAX within JSF
to post that data back and then the table
will automatically update with the managers.
The item.xhtml page has a backing bean
associated with it, it's the catalog item detail bean
and within this bean we're going to do several things.
We'll fetch the item and then we're also going to add
some logic here that's going to assist
with saving the item.
If we take a look then at our EJB interface,
you'll see then that we have a new save item method
and that's going to allow us to take the catalog item
along with the new managers that were added
and save it in the database,
and that brings us to our catalog EJB
and here within the catalog EJB we've added a stub
for the save item method.
So we're going to start here.
The first thing that we need to do is use
our entity manager to merge this item
into our persistence context so that the item
can be updated.
So when we perform an update using JPA we're using
the merge operation on the entity manager.
Now, the entity manager needs to know how to map
this many to many association
and it's our job as the developer to instruct
the entity manager on how to do that.
So we're going to update the mapping
within our catalog item class to include the many to many
association, so the first thing we do is add
the many to many annotation and we're going to import that
annotation and then specify a cascade type
and that cascade type is going to be all.
So any operation on this entity is going to persist
to any associated entities
and then we're also going to set the fetch type to eager.
So as soon as we retrieve this entity from the database,
we want to load all associated entities with that entity.
Okay so, that's the easy part.
Now we need to add the join table
and on the join table annotation that we use to map
the many to many you're going to find a join columns element
that join columns element accepts an array
of join column annotations.
So we're going to go ahead and then add a join column
within this annotation so we're kind of
nesting annotations here and then we just specify the name
of the join column to map to the catalog item
from the join table.
So it's going to be the catalog item ID column
and then we need to specify another join column
and this is going to be the inverse join column.
So now we're saying what column in our join table
maps over to our item manager table
and we use another join column annotation here
and let's just drop that to a second line
and within that join column annotation
we're going to specify that column that's going to be used
to associate with the item manager
and it's the item manager ID.
Okay so that's in place,
and now because this is a bi-directional relationship
we need to go over to the item manager entity
and within that entity we need to complete the mapping.
It's a little bit easier on this side,
because the mapping is defined over on the catalog item.
So we just add a many to many annotation
and then within that many to many we point
to the field on the catalog item class
that is going to define the mapping
and that is the item manager's field.
So all we need provide the string item managers
and our mapping is now in place
and there's just one final thing that we need to do.
So when we persist in a many to many association,
we need to make sure that we update both sides
of the relationship with the entities.
So let's talk about what that means.
So we're going to grab our manager
which is a field on the backing bean that we have mapped
to our form and we're going to grab the catalog items
they manage and we're going to add our catalog item
to that collection so we've updated one side
of the association, now we need to go ahead
and update the other side so we have the item
bound to this backing bean as well.
We're going to go ahead and get the item managers,
so then we're going to go ahead and add the manager
into the collection of item managers on the catalog item.
So that's what I mean by updating both sides
of the relationship, you can't just set one.
Okay and then we can use our EJV in order to save the item,
and then we just pass in our item and then finally within
the backing bean we're going to update the item
so that it displays by calling the find item method
on our EJB and that's going to retrieve
the updated item from the database.
Okay so everything is in place, let's go ahead now,
and we're going to launch our application
and I'll start opening up a browser here,
so we see the application spinning up
okay so we are at our catalog form, let's go ahead
we're going to add an item.
Then we'll go ahead and submit that item.
You'll see the hyperlink that allows us
to go check out the item details
and then let's add an item manager here
and you'll notice the new item manager appears in the list
and then let us go ahead and we'll add another item manager
and there you can see the many to many relationship
that we built between the item,
and the managers of the item.
Okay so that concludes our lesson on mapping many
to many associations if you can map this association
you'll be able to map any of the others
like the one to many or the one to one.
This is definitely the most difficult by far.